---
id: 1707075625-jsx
aliases:
  - jsx
tags: []
---

# jsx
JavaScript XML, is a syntax extension for JavaScript that allows for HTML-like code within JavaScript files.

>[!note] If a JavaScript files contains JSX code, it will need to be compiled.

JSX elements are treated as JavaScript expressions.

## Attributes
JSX elements can have *attributes* just like HTML elements. It can also contain multiple attributes.

## Nested JSX
HTML elements can be nested within each other. If a JSX expression takes up more than one line, then you must wrap the multi-line JSX expression in `()`.
```js
const theExample = (
    <a href="https://www.example.com">
        <h1>
            click me!
        </h1>
    </a>
);
```

>[!warning] JSX expressions must have exactly one outermost element. Just wrap multiple HTML in a `<div>`

## Rendering JSX
```js
const container = document.getElementById('app')
const root = createRoot(container)
root.render(<h1>Hello World</h1>)
```
React relies on two things to render: what content to render and where to place the content.

The `createRoot()` from `react-dom/client` library creates a React root from the `container` and stores it in `root` which can be used to render JSX expressions.

The `render` method of `root` is used to render the JSX expression.

Variables that contain nest JSX expressions can be passed to `render()` method.

## The Virtual DOM
React root's `render()` method only updates DOM elements that have changed.

# Advanced JSX
There a some subtle difference between interacting with JSX and HTML.

## Class vs ClassName
When JSX gets translated into JavaScript `class` is a reserved word. Therefore we need to use `className` when working with HTML attributes.

## Self-Closing Tags
When you write a self-closing tag in HTML, it is optional to include a forward slash immediately before the final angle bracket. In JSX you have to include the slash.
```HTML
// Fine in JSX:
<br />
// Not FINE
<br>
```
## JavaScript in JSX
Any code in between tags of a JSX element will be read as JSX, to avoid this wrap expressions in `{}` to be treated as JavaScript.

### Variable Attributes in JSX
It's common to use variables as attributes for HTML. The variables are also wrapped in `{}`

### Event listeners in JSX
JSX elements can have event listeners, just like HTML elements. The `onClick` attribute is wrapped with `{}` to point to the correct variable.

>[!note] Event listeners in JSX are written in camel case.

### Conditionals
You can not inject an `if` statement into a JSX expression.
- You can run an `if...else` outside the JSX expression and render the variables the hold the result of the condition

- You can use a ternary operator `x ? y : z` wrapped in `{}`
```js
const headline = (
    <h1>
        {age <= drinkAge ? "Buy Dring" : "Do Teen Stuff"}
    </h1>
)
```

#### && Conditional
`&&` works best for conditionals that will sometimes do an action but other times do *nothing at all*.
```js
const tasty = (
    <ul>
        <li>Applesauce</li>
        {!baby && <li>Pizza</li>}
        {age > 15 && <li>Brussels Sprouts}
        {age > 20 && <li>Oysters</li}
        {age > 25 && <li>Grappa</li}
    </ul>
)
```
If the expression on the left of `&&` evaluates as true, then the JSX on the right will be rendered. If the expression is false, the JSX expression is ignored.

## Map in JSX
The `.map()` array method is frequently used in React.
```js
const string = ["Home", "Shop", "About Me"]
const listItems = strings.map(string => <li>{string}</li>);
<ul>{listItems}</ul>
```
## Keys
When making a list in JSX sometimes the `<li>` with need a `key=` attribute to preserve the order. A list only needs a key if:
- The list items have memory from one render to the next.
- A list's order might be shuffled from one render to the next.
```js
const peopleList = people.map((person, i) =>
    <li key={'person_'+i}>{person}</li>
)
```


