---
tags:
  - SQL
---

---
Created: [[04-11-2023]]
tags: 
---
# SQL Constraints
- Essentially database rules.
- All constraints are stored in the [[Data Dictionary]]
- Constraints prevent the deletion of a table if there are dependencies from other tables.
- Constraints enforce rules on the data whenever a row is inserted, updated or deleted from a table.
- There are two places in the [[CREATE TABLE]] statement to specify details:
	- At the column level next to the name and data type.
		- Enforces only on the column
	- At the table level after all the column names are listed.

>[!tip] Constraints that refer to more than one column (a composite key) must be defined at the table level.

## Naming Constraints
- Every constraint has a name. Wether defined our autogenerated.
- A good naming convention  is a combination of the tablename abbreviated and a column name abbreviated followed by the constraint abbreviation.
- If the reserved word **CONSTRAINT** is used in the [[CREATE TABLE]] definition, you must give the constraint a name. 
- Constraints are limited to 30 characters.

## Types of Constraints
- [[NOT NULL CONSTRAINT|NOT NULL]]
- [[UNIQUE Constraint|UNIQUE]]
- PRIMARY KEY
- FOREIGN KEY
- CHECK

```SQL
CREATE TABLE clients
(client_number NUMBER(4) CONSTRAINT clients_client_num_pk PRIMARY KEY,
 first_name VARCHAR2(14),
 last_name VARCHAR2(13));
```
>[!note] A column-level constraint. where the name of the constraint is *clients_client_num_pk* is the primary key of the clients table


```SQL
CREATE TABLE clients (
client_number NUMBER(6) NOT NULL,
first_name VARCHAR2(20),
last_name VARCHAR2(20),
phone VARCHAR2(20),
email VARCHAR2(10) NOT NULL,
CONSTRAINT clients_phone_email_uk UNIQUE (email,phone)
)
```
>[!note] A table-level constraint with column-level constraints.
